README.md, before:

# Demo app for ReactJS and Apollo GraphQL

This web application is a tool to organize personal data such as Events, Accounts for services, and Family members.  It demonstrates a fully-working app with React components using an Apollo GraphQL server as the backend, supporting Lists and CRUD operations with nested relational data.

There is a Demo user to login with, seeded with test data, and supports creating a new account and adding/editing/removing records. The data is persisted to a SQLite database (serverless, file-based) so that subsequent loads of the GraphQL server and web app will recall the local data.

Technologies used:

* Front-end: React, TypeScript, MobX (store), Apollo Client (GraphQL), Vite, Yarn
* Back-end: Apollo GraphQL Server, Prisma (ORM), SQLite (file DB), Yarn
* UI/Styles: Tailwind CSS, Flowbite, FontAwesome

## Prerequisites:

Globally installed:
* nvm
* npm (10.2+)
* node (v18)
* yarn (1.22+)

```bash
nvm install 18
nvm use 18
npm install --global yarn
```

## React App Setup:

In the first terminal, run commands in the root path of the repo:

```bash
cd path/to/repo/
cp .env.example .env
yarn install
```

> Optional: Customize the React app Port 5174 for Vite in the root .env (set VITE_NODEJS_PORT).


## GraphQL Server Setup:

In the second terminal, run commands in the server/ sub-directory:

```bash
cd path/to/repo/server/
cp .env.example .env
yarn install
```

> Optional: Customize the GraphQL server Port 4001 in ./server/.env (set PORT), and in root .env (set VITE_GRAPHQL_BASE_URL port).


Generate the Prisma Client from DB schema:

```bash
yarn prisma generate
```

<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
  This generates the Prisma Client to node_modules/@prisma/client from schema for use by the GraphQL server.<br/>
  The prisma/migrations folder and prisma/dev.db (SQLite DB) are committed to the repo for Demo purposes.
</details>


## Start the GraphQL server:

In second terminal (keep open and running):

```bash
cd path/to/repo/server/
yarn start
```


## Start the React app with Vite:

```bash
cd path/to/repo/
yarn dev
```

## Login with Demo User:

> Visit: http://localhost:5174/

Email: user@example.org<br/>
Password: password<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

# Optional Actions:

## Run Apollo Studio to query the local GraphQL server:

> Visit http://localhost:4001/

This will load a splash page to redirect to this remote site with specific endpoint/port set: https://studio.apollographql.com/sandbox/explorer

## Run Prisma Studio to view DB data in SQLite:

```bash
yarn prisma studio
```
> Visit http://localhost:5555/ to load the Prisma Studio local application to view the DB data directly.

## Reset DB and Seed Data:

```bash
yarn prisma migrate reset
```
This will clear all SQLite database tables of data, and run the prisma/seed.js script again to reinitialize.

## Recreate SQLite DB from schema and Regenerate Prisma Client:

```bash
cd server/
rm -rf prisma/migrations/ prisma/dev.db
yarn prisma migrate dev --name "init"
yarn prisma generate
```
This uses the prisma/schema.prisma to create the prisma/migrations/* and prisma/dev.db (SQLite DB). The DB data is seeded using a prisma/seed.js script.

Commit message:

Updated Register/Login to create/return Self Person. Fixed PersonsList to prevent delete Self Person.

README.md, after:

# Demo app for ReactJS and Apollo GraphQL

This web application is a tool to organize personal data such as Events, Accounts for services, and Family members.  It demonstrates a fully-working app with React components using an Apollo GraphQL server as the backend, supporting Lists and CRUD operations with nested relational data.

There is a Demo user to login with, seeded with test data, and supports creating a new account and adding/editing/removing records. The data is persisted to a SQLite database (serverless, file-based) so that subsequent loads of the GraphQL server and web app will recall the local data.

Technologies used:

* Front-end: React, TypeScript, MobX (store), Apollo Client (GraphQL), Vite, Yarn
* Back-end: Apollo GraphQL Server, Prisma (ORM), SQLite (file DB), Yarn
* UI/Styles: Tailwind CSS, Flowbite, FontAwesome

## Prerequisites:

Globally installed:
* nvm
* npm (10.2+)
* node (v18)
* yarn (1.22+)

```bash
nvm install 18
nvm use 18
npm install --global yarn
```

## React App Setup:

In the first terminal, run commands in the root path of the repo:

```bash
cd path/to/repo/
cp .env.example .env
yarn install
```

> Optional: Customize the React app Port 5174 for Vite in the root .env (set VITE_NODEJS_PORT).


## GraphQL Server Setup:

In the second terminal, run commands in the server/ sub-directory:

```bash
cd path/to/repo/server/
cp .env.example .env
yarn install
```

> Optional: Customize the GraphQL server Port 4001 in ./server/.env (set PORT), and in root .env (set VITE_GRAPHQL_BASE_URL port).


Generate the Prisma Client from DB schema:

```bash
yarn prisma generate
```

<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
  This generates the Prisma Client to node_modules/@prisma/client from schema for use by the GraphQL server.<br/>
  The prisma/migrations folder and prisma/dev.db (SQLite DB) are committed to the repo for Demo purposes.
</details>


## Start the GraphQL server:

In second terminal (keep open and running):

```bash
cd path/to/repo/server/
yarn start
```

Expected Output:
```bash
GraphQL Server ready at: http://localhost:4001/
```

## Start the React app:

In the first terminal, start the React app with Vite:

```bash
cd path/to/repo/
yarn dev
```

## Login with Demo User:

Visit: http://localhost:5174/

Email: user@example.org<br/>
Password: password<br/>
<br/>

Explore the Family, Events, and Accounts sections, with search, add, edit, and delete actions for each.


# Optional Actions:

## Run Apollo Studio to query the local GraphQL server:

> Visit http://localhost:4001/

This will load a splash page to redirect to this remote site with specific endpoint/port set: https://studio.apollographql.com/sandbox/explorer

## Run Prisma Studio to view DB data in SQLite:

```bash
yarn prisma studio
```
> Visit http://localhost:5555/ to load the Prisma Studio local application to view the DB data directly.

## Reset DB and Seed Data:

```bash
yarn prisma migrate reset
```
This will clear all SQLite database tables of data, and run the prisma/seed.js script again to reinitialize.

## Recreate SQLite DB from schema and Regenerate Prisma Client:

```bash
cd server/
rm -rf prisma/migrations/ prisma/dev.db
yarn prisma migrate dev --name "init"
yarn prisma generate
```
This uses the prisma/schema.prisma to create the prisma/migrations/* and prisma/dev.db (SQLite DB). The DB data is seeded using a prisma/seed.js script.
